So let’s fix this problem between router 1 and 2950-1.
So on the router it’s currently configured to use a speed of 100.
So I’m going to set the speed to auto.
This router doesn’t give me the option to set duplex.
So show run int f/0 speed is auto sh int f/0 speed is still half duplex.
The router can’t negotiate with the switch.
So once again it moves to a full back position of 10 meg half duplex.
and this is what has cause a lot of problem in the past because the 1 side
such as the router can’t negotiate with the other side, it simply moves to the
lowest possible speed which is half duplex 10 Mbps where's the switch is using full duplex.
So on this switch sh run int f0/3, speed is 10, duplex is full
let’s change that to speed rather speed auto, duplex auto, sh run int f0/3 no configuration
sh int f0/3 notice it is now using 100 meg full duplex and on the router
we are getting 100 meg full duplex, so thats a lot better.
The router and the switch have negotiated correctly to use 100 Mbps full duplex.
So can we ping router 2? Yes we can.
Let’s do a large ping, large datagram size, pings are being sent without any problems
we're not seeing any late collisions at the moment because the speed and duplex have
negotiated properly, this may indicate a problem somewhere else in the network.
At the moment every things looks good, sh int f0
Now we still see late collisions but that’s because of the previous counters.
So I’m gonna clear the counters and then do the command sh int f0 again.
And notice you see 0 late collisions.
So when looking at your output be careful of the information.
Clear counters and we could specify a specific interface.
Allows us to clear the counters on that interface
so that we see fresh information
So once again if we ping 10.1.1.2 1000 pings.
Large packet size, we're sending some traffic on this side, sh int f0/3
we’ve got the input errors and CRC's
so clear counters f0/3 we don’t see any input errors and CRC's.
Obviously you need to monitor that over period of time
so we are seeing a certain number of packets in and certain number of packet out.
So traffic is definitely being sent and received on this interface.
We're not seeing any input errors which is better than we saw last time
but you just need to monitor that for a period of time
on the routers sh int f0 we see the number of packets input
number of packets output. we have no late collision at the moment.
So that's a lot better than what we saw previously.
Now on this switch we're still seeing another problem with the duplex mismatch to switch 2.
So this connection here has a duplex problem.